.TH querybts 1
.SH NAME
querybts \- view outstanding bug reports on a debbugs server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B querybts
.I "[options] <package | number [number2]...>"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B querybts
is designed to provide a convenient and easy-to-use interface to the
Debbugs bug tracking system, as used by Debian and several other
projects.  You can specify a package name or one or more report
numbers.
.SH OPTIONS
The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`\fB\-\-\fP').  A summary of options
are included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the version of \fBquerybts\fP and exit.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-archive
Browse archived bugs instead of current reports.  Debbugs servers
clear out closed reports after 28 days and place them in a separate
archive; this option allows those older, resolved reports to be viewed
(at least for servers that maintain an archive).
.TP
.B \-B SYSTEM, \-\-bts=SYSTEM
Instead of the Debian bug server, use the server specified by
\fBSYSTEM\fP.  Valid options are \fBdefault\fP and \fBdebian\fP but
check \fB\-\-help\fP for an updated list.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-buglist
Display a bugs list for the given package.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mbox
Retrieve the given bug number(s) or package name(s) as a mailbox file,
instead of viewing it. It will be dumped to standard output.
.TP
.B \-\-proxy=PROXY, \-\-http_proxy=PROXY
Specify the WWW proxy server to use to handle the queries to the bug
tracking system.  You should only need this parameter if you are
behind a firewall.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-source
Query on source packages, rather than binary packages.
.TP
.B \-\-timeout=SECONDS
Specify the network timeout, the number of seconds to wait for a
resource to respond. If nothing is specified, a default timeout of 1
minute is selected.

In case of a network error, there are chances it's due to a too low
timeout: try passing the \-\-timeout option with a higher value than
default.
.TP
.B \-u INTERFACE, \-\-ui=INTERFACE, \-\-interface=INTERFACE
Specify the user interface to use.  Valid options are \fBtext\fP,
\fBurwid\fP, \fBgtk2\fP; default is taken from the reportbug
configuration files.
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-web
Launch a web browser to view bug reports, instead of using the
internal interface.  This will also allow you to see the whole
discussion about a particular bug at once, instead of one message at a
time as \fBquerybts\fP would do.  (Only the first bug number on the
command line will be opened.)
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.B querybts
supports a simple run control file syntax.  Commands are read from
\fB/etc/reportbug.conf\fP and \fB$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP with commands
in the latter overriding those in the former.

Commands are not case sensitive, and currently take 0 or 1 argument;
arguments containing whitespace must be enclosed in quotes.

Any line starting with # is taken to be a comment and will be ignored.

Generally, options corresponding to the long options for
\fBquerybts\fP are supported, without leading \fB\-\-\fP sequences.
See the default \fB/etc/reportbug.conf\fP for all acceptable options
and \fBreportbug.conf(5)\fP for all acceptable options and detailed
information.

Options only supported by \fBreportbug\fP will be silently ignored.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BROWSER
Colon-separated list of web browsers to try; they will be tried in
order, until one succeeds.  You can use \fB%s\fP to substitute the URL
to be used, and \fB%%\fP to insert a literal percent sign.  If no
\fB%s\fP is specified, the URL will be supplied as a normal argument.
.TP
Provides the address of a proxy server to handle the BTS query.  This
should be a valid \fBhttp\fP URL for a proxy server, including any
required port number (simply specifying a hostname, or omitting a port
other than 80, WILL NOT WORK).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
reportbug(1), reportbug.conf(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lawrence <lawrencc@debian.org>,
Sandro Tosi <morph@debian.org>.
