.TH reportbug 1
.SH NAME
reportbug \- reports a bug to a debbugs server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reportbug
.I "[options] <package | pseudo-package | absolute-pathname>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reportbug
is primarily designed to report bugs in the Debian distribution; by
default, it creates an email to the Debian bug tracking system at
\fIsubmit@bugs.debian.org\fP with information about the bug you've
found, and makes a carbon copy of the report for you as well.
.PP
Using the \fB\-\-bts\fP option, you can also report bugs to other
servers that use the Debian bug tracking system, \fBdebbugs\fP.
.PP
You may specify either a package name or a filename; if you use a
filename, it must either be an absolute filename (so beginning with a
\fB/\fP) or if you want \fBreportbug\fP to search the system for a
filename, see the \fB\-\-filename\fP and \fP\-\-path\fP options
below. If installed, also \fBdlocate\fP is used to identify the
filename location and thus the package containing it.
.PP
You can also specify a \fBpseudo-package\fP; these are used in the
Debian bug tracking system to track issues that are not related to one
specific package.  Run \fBreportbug\fP without any arguments, then
enter \fBother\fP at the package prompt, to see a list of the most
commonly-used \fBpseudo-packages\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
The program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (`\fB\-\-\fP').  A summary of options
are included below.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show the version of \fBreportbug\fP and exit.
.TP
.B \-A FILENAME, \-\-attach=FILENAME
Attach a file to the bug report; both text and binary files are
acceptable; this option can be specified multiple times to attach
several files.  This routine will create a MIME attachment with the
file included; in some cases (usually text files), it is probably
better to use \fB\-i/\-\-include\fP option.  (Please note that
Debian's bug tracking system has limited support for MIME
attachments.)
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-no\-query\-bts
Don't check the Debian bug tracking system to see if this problem has
already been reported; useful for offline use or if you're
\fBreally\fP sure it's a bug.
.TP
.B \-\-query\-bts
Check the Debian bug tracking system to see if this problem has
already been reported (default).
.TP
.B \-B SYSTEM, \-\-bts=SYSTEM
Instead of the Debian bug server (or the bug server specified in
\fB/etc/reportbug.conf\fP, use the server specified by \fBSYSTEM\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-body=BODY
Use the specified \fIBODY\fP as the body of the message.  The body
text will be wrapped at 70 columns, and the normal \fBreportbug\fP
headers and footers will be added as appropriate.  The editor prompt
and any "special" prompting will be bypassed.
.TP
.B \-\-body\-file=BODYFILE, \-\-bodyfile=BODYFILE
The contents of the (assumed to be) text file \fIBODYFILE\fP will be
used as the message body.  This file is assumed to be properly
formatted (i.e. reasonable line lengths, etc.).  The usual headers and
footers will be added, and the editor step and "special" prompts will
be skipped.  (\fIBODYFILE\fP may also be a named pipe; using a device
special file may lead to unusual results.)
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-no\-config\-files
Omit configuration files from the bug report without asking.  By
default, you are asked if you want to include them; in some cases,
doing so may cause sensitive information to be sent via email.
.TP
.B \-C CLASS, \-\-class=CLASS
Specify report class for GNATS BTSes.
.TP
.B \-\-configure
Rerun the \fBreportbug\fP first time configuration routine, and write
a new \fB$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP file.  This will erase any pre-existing
settings in the file; however, a backup will be written as
\fB$HOME/.reportbugrc~\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-check\-available
Check for newer releases of the package at \fBpackages.debian.org\fP
(default).  In \fBadvanced\fP and \fBexpert\fP mode, check
\fBincoming.debian.org\fP and
\fBhttp://ftp-master.debian.org/new.html\fP too.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-check\-available
Do not check for newer releases of the package at
\fBpackages.debian.org\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-debconf
Include debconf settings in your report.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-debconf
Do not include debconf settings from your report.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Don't send a real bug report to Debian; send it to yourself instead.
This is primarily used for testing by the maintainer.
.TP
.B \-\-test
Operate in test mode (maintainer use only).
.TP
.B \-\-draftpath=DRAFTPATH
Save the draft (for example, when exiting and saving the report
without reporting it) into \fIDRAFTPATH\fP directory.
.TP
.B \-e EDITOR, \-\-editor=EDITOR
Specify the editor to use, overriding any \fBEDITOR\fP or \fBVISUAL\fP
environment variable setting.
.TP
.B \-\-email=ADDRESS
Set the email address your report should appear to be sent from
(i.e. the address that appears in the \fBFrom\fP header).  This should
be the actual Internet email address on its own (i.e. without a real
name or comment part, like \fBfoo@example.com\fP).  This setting will
override the \fBEMAIL\fP and \fBDEBEMAIL\fP environment variables, but
not \fBREPORTBUGEMAIL\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-exit\-prompt
Display a prompt before exiting; this is useful if \fBreportbug\fP is
run in a transient terminal (i.e. from its Debian menu entry).
.TP
.B \-f FILENAME, \-\-filename=FILENAME
Report a bug in the package containing \fIFILENAME\fP so you don't
have to figure out what package the file belongs to.  The path will be
searched for an exact path for \fIFILENAME\fP before attempting to
broaden the search to all files. If \fBdlocate\fP is installed,
\fIFILENAME\fP is actually a regular expression.
.TP
.B \-\-path
If the \fB\-f/\-\-filename\fP option is also specified, only search
the path for the specified \fIFILENAME\fP.  Specifying an absolute
path with the \fB\-f/\-\-filename\fP option (i.e. one beginning with a
\fB/\fP) overrides this behavior.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-gnupg, \-\-gpg
Attach a digital signature to the bug report using \fBGnuPG\fP (the
GNU Privacy Guard).  (This argument will be ignored if you are using
an MUA to edit and send your report.)
.TP
.B \-G, \-\-gnus
Use the GNUS mail and news reader to send your report, rather than
using the editor.
.TP
.B \-H HEADER, \-\-header=HEADER
Add a custom RFC2822 header to your email; for example, to send a
carbon copy of the report to \fBdebian-68k@lists.linux-m68k.org\fP you
could use
.I \-H 'X\-Debbugs\-CC: debian\-68k@lists.linux\-m68k.org'
.TP
.B \-i FILE, \-\-include=FILE
Include the specified \fIFILE\fP as part of the body of the message to
be edited.  Can be used multiple times to add multiple files;
text-only please!  From a suggestion by Michael Alan Dorman in the
\fBbug\fP mailing list.  (See also the \fB\-a/\-\-attach\fP option.)
.TP
.B \-I, \-\-no\-check\-installed
Do not check whether the package is installed before filing a report.
This is generally only useful when filing a report on a package you
know is not installed on your system.
.TP
.B \-\-check\-installed
Check if the specified package is installed when filing reports.
(This is the default behavior of \fBreportbug\fP.)
.TP
.B \-j JUSTIFICATION, \-\-justification=JUSTIFICATION
Bugs in Debian that have \fBserious\fP, \fBgrave\fP, or \fBcritical\fP
severities must meet certain criteria to be classified as such.  This
option allows you to specify the justification for a release-critical
bug, instead of being prompted for it.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-kudos
Send appreciative email to the recorded maintainer address, rather
than filing a bug report.  (You can also send kudos to
\fIpackagename@packages.debian.org\fP, for packages in the Debian
archive; however, this option uses the Maintainer address from the
control file, so it works with other package sources too.)
.TP
.B \-K KEYID, \-\-keyid=KEYID
Private key to use for PGP/GnuPG signatures.  If not specified, the
first key in the secret keyring that matches your email address will
be used.
.TP
.B \-\-license
Show \fBreportbug\fP's copyright and license information on standard
output.
.TP
.B \-\-list\-cc=ADDRESS
Send a carbon copy of the report to the specified list after a report
number is assigned; this is the equivalent to the option
\fI\-H 'X\-Debbugs\-CC: ADDRESS'\fP.  This option will only work as
intended with \fBdebbugs\fP systems.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-maintonly
Only send the bug to the package maintainer; the bug tracking system
will not send a copy to the bug report distribution lists.
.TP
.B \-\-mirror=MIRRORS
Add a BTS mirror.
.TP
.B \-\-mode=MODE
Set the operating mode for \fBreportbug\fP.  \fBreportbug\fP
currently has four operating modes: \fBnovice\fP (the
default), \fBstandard\fP, \fBadvanced\fP, and \fBexpert\fP.

\fBnovice\fP mode is designed to minimize prompting about things that
"ordinary users" would be unlikely to know or care about, shifting the
triage burden onto the maintainer.  Checking for new versions is only
done for the stable distribution in this mode.  It is currently the
default mode.

\fBstandard\fP mode includes a relatively large number of prompts and
tries to encourage users to not file frivolous or duplicate bug
reports.

\fBadvanced\fP mode is like \fBstandard\fP mode, but may include
shortcuts suitable for more advanced users of Debian, without being as
close to the metal (and potential flamage) as \fBexpert\fP mode.
(Currently, the only differences from \fBstandard\fP mode are that it
assumes familiarity with the "incoming" queue; it allows the reporting
of bugs on "dependency" packages; and it does not prompt where to
insert the report text in the editor.)

\fBexpert\fP mode is designed to minimize prompts that are designed to
discourage frivolous or unnecessary bug reports, "severity inflation,"
and the like.  In \fBexpert\fP mode, \fBreportbug\fP assumes the user
is thoroughly familiar with Debian policies.  In practice, this means
that reporters are no longer required to justify setting a high
severity on a bug report, and certain automated cleanups of the
message are bypassed.  Individuals who do not regularly contribute to
the Debian project are \fIhighly\fP discouraged from using expert
mode, as it can lead to flamage from maintainers when used improperly.
.TP
.B \-M, \-\-mutt
Instead of spawning an editor to revise the bug report, use the
\fBmutt\fP mail reader to edit and send it.
.TP
.B \-\-mta=MTA
Specify an alternate \fIMTA\fP, instead of \fB/usr/sbin/sendmail\fP
(the default).  Any \fBsmtphost\fP setting will override this one.
.TP
.B \-\-mua=MUA
Instead of spawning an editor to revise the bug report, use the
specified \fIMUA\fP (mail user agent) to edit and send
it. \fB--mutt\fP and \fB--nmh\fP options are processed.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-mh, \-\-nmh
Instead of spawning an editor to revise the bug report, use the
\fBcomp\fP command (part of the \fBnmh\fP and \fBmh\fP mail systems)
to edit and send it.
.TP
.B \-N, \-\-bugnumber
Run \fBreportbug\fP against the specified bug report, useful when
following-up a bug and its number is already known.
.TP
.B \-o FILE, \-\-output=FILE
Instead of sending an email, redirect it to the specified filename.

The output file is a full dump of the email message, so it contains
both headers and mail body. If you want to use it as a template to
create a new bug report, then you have to remove all the headers (mind
the \fBSubject\fP one, though) and start the report at the
\fBPackage\fP pseudo-header.
.TP
.B \-O, \-\-offline
Disable all external queries.  Currently has the same effect as
\fB\-\-no\-check\-available \-\-no\-query\-bts\fP.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-print
Instead of sending an email, print the bug report to standard output,
so you can redirect it to a file or pipe it to another program.

This option only outputs a template for a bug report (but, differently
from \fB\-\-template\fP it's more interactive); you will need to fill
in the long description.
.TP
.B \-\-paranoid
Show the contents of the message before it is sent, including all
headers.  Automatically disabled if in template mode.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-paranoid
Don't show the full contents of the message before it is sent
(default).
.TP
.B \-\-pgp
Attach a digital signature to the bug report using \fBPGP\fP (Pretty
Good Privacy).  Please note, however, that the Debian project is
phasing out the use of \fBPGP\fP in favor of \fBGnuPG\fP.  (This
argument will be ignored if using an MUA to edit and send your
report.)
.TP
.B \-\-proxy=PROXY, \-\-http_proxy=PROXY
Specify the WWW proxy server to use to handle the query of the bug
tracking system.  You should only need this parameter if you are
behind a firewall.  The \fIPROXY\fP argument should be formatted as a
valid HTTP URL, including (if necessary) a port number; for example,
\fBhttp://192.168.1.1:3128/\fP.
.TP
.B \-P PSEUDO-HEADER, \-\-pseudo\-header=PSEUDO-HEADER
Add a custom pseudo-header to your report; for example, to add the
\fImytag\fP usertag for the user \fIhumberto@example.com\fP to the
bug, you could use \fI\-P 'User: humberto@example.com' \-P 'Usertags:
mytag'\fP.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress diagnostic messages to standard error.
.TP
.B \-Q, \-\-query\-only
Do not submit a bug report; just query the BTS.  Option ignored if you
specify \fB\-\-no\-bts\-query\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-query\-source
Query on all binary packages built by the same source, not just the
binary package specified.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-query\-source
Only query on the binary package specified on the command line.
.TP
.B \-\-realname=NAME
Set the real name (human-readable name) to use for your report.
.TP
.B \-\-report\-quiet
Register the bug in the bug tracking system, but don't send a report
to the package maintainer or anyone else.  Don't do this unless you're
the maintainer of the package in question, or you really know what you
are doing.
.TP
.B \-\-reply-to=ADDRESS, \-\-replyto=ADDRESS
Set the \fBReply-To\fP address header in your report.
.TP
.B \-s SUBJECT, \-\-subject=SUBJECT
Set the subject of the bug report (i.e. a brief explanation of the
problem, less than 60 characters).  If you do not specify this switch,
you will be prompted for a subject.
.TP
.B \-S SEVERITY, \-\-severity=SEVERITY
Specify a severity level, from \fBcritical\fP, \fBgrave\fP,
\fBserious\fP, \fBimportant\fP, \fBnormal\fP, \fBminor\fP, and
\fBwishlist\fP.
.TP
.B \-\-smtphost=HOST[:PORT]
Use the mail transport agent (MTA) at \fBHOST\fP to send your report,
instead of your local \fB/usr/sbin/sendmail\fP program.  This should
generally be your ISP's outgoing mail server; you can also
use 'localhost' if you have a working mail server running on your
machine.  If the \fBPORT\fP is omitted, the standard port for SMTP,
port 25, is used.
.TP
.B \-\-timeout=SECONDS
Specify the network timeout, the number of seconds to wait for a
resource to respond. If nothing is specified, a default timeout of 1
minute is selected.

In case of a network error, there are chances it's due to a too low
timeout: try passing the \-\-timeout option with a higher value than
default.
.TP
.B \-\-tls
If using SMTP, use Transport Layer Security (TLS) encryption to secure
the connection to the mail server.  Some SMTP servers may require this
option.
.TP
.B \-\-smtpuser=USERNAME
If using SMTP, use the specified \fIUSERNAME\fP for authentication.
.TP
.B \-\-smtppasswd=PASSWORD
If using SMTP, use the specified \fIPASSWORD\fP for authentication.
If the password isn't specified on the command line or in the
configuration file, a prompt will be displayed asking for it.

Use of this option is insecure on multiuser systems.  Instead, you
should set this option in \fB$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP and ensure it is
only readable by your user (e.g. with \fBchmod 600
$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP).
.TP
.B \-t TYPE, \-\-type=TYPE
Specify the type of report to be submitted; currently accepts either
\fBgnats\fP or \fBdebbugs\fP.
.TP
.B \-T TAG, \-\-tag=TAG
Specify a tag to be filed on this report, for example
\fB\-\-tag=patch\fP.  Multiple tags can be specified using multiple
\fB\-T/\-\-tag\fP arguments.

Alternatively, you can specify the 'tag' \fBnone\fP to bypass the tags
prompt without specifying any tags; this will also ignore any tags
specified on the command line.
.TP
.B \-\-template
Output a template report to standard output. Differently from
\fP\-p/\-\-print\fP, it tries to be not interactive, and present a
template without user's input.
.TP
.B \-u INTERFACE, \-\-interface=INTERFACE, \-\-ui=INTERFACE
Specify the user interface to use.  Valid options are \fBtext\fP,
\fBurwid\fP, and \fBgtk2\fP; default is taken from the \fBreportbug\fP
configuration files.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verify
Verify the integrity of the package (if installed) using \fBdebsums\fP
before reporting.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-verify
Do not verify the integrity of the package with \fBdebsums\fP.
.TP
.B \-V VERSION, \-\-package\-version=VERSION
Specify the version of the package the problem was found in.  This is
probably most useful if you are reporting a bug in a package that is
not installable or installed on a different system.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-no\-cc
Don't send a blind carbon copy (BCC) of the bug report to the
submitter (i.e. yourself).
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-no\-compress
Don't compress configuration files by removing comments and blank
lines.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B reportbug lynx-ssl
Report a bug in the lynx-ssl package.
.TP
.B reportbug \-\-path \-\-filename=ls
Report a bug in the installed package that includes a program in your
path called \fBls\fP.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
From version 0.22 on, \fBreportbug\fP has supported a simple run
control file syntax.  Commands are read from \fB/etc/reportbug.conf\fP
and \fB$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP with commands in the latter overriding
those in the former.

Commands are not case sensitive, and currently take 0 or 1 argument;
arguments containing whitespace must be enclosed in quotes.

Any line starting with \fB#\fP is taken to be a comment and will be
ignored.

Generally, options corresponding to the long options for
\fBreportbug\fP are supported, without leading \fB\-\-\fP sequences.
See \fBreportbug.conf(5)\fP for all acceptable options and detailed
information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B VISUAL
Editor to use for editing your bug report.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor to use for editing the bug report (overridden by \fBVISUAL\fP).
.TP
.B REPORTBUGEMAIL, EMAIL, DEBEMAIL
Email address to use as your from address (in this order). If no
environment variable exists, the default is taken from your user name
and \fB/etc/mailname\fP.
.TP
.B DEBFULLNAME, DEBNAME, NAME
Real name to use; default is taken from \fB/etc/passwd\fP.
.TP
.B REPLYTO
Address for \fBReply-To\fP header in outgoing mail.
.TP
.B MAILCC
Use the specified CC address on your email.  Note you can also use the
\fB-H\fP option for this (and for Bcc's too).
.TP
.B MAILBCC
Use the specified BCC address, instead of your email address.  (CC and
BCC based on suggestions from Herbert Thielen in the \fBbug\fP
wishlist).
.TP
.B http_proxy
Provides the address of a proxy server to handle the BTS query.  This
should be a valid \fBhttp\fP URL for a proxy server, including any
required port number (simply specifying a hostname, or omitting a port
other than 80, WILL NOT WORK).
.SH NOTES
.B reportbug
should probably be compatible with other bug tracking systems, like
\fBbugzilla\fP (used by the GNOME and Mozilla projects) and
\fBjitterbug\fP (used by Samba, AbiSource and FreeCiv) but it isn't.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
reportbug.conf(5),
.I http://www.debian.org/Bugs/Developer#tags
for available tags, querybts(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lawrence <lawrencc@debian.org>,
Sandro Tosi <morph@debian.org>.

\"  LocalWords:  reportbug debbugs pathname Debian bts fBdebbugs fP filename fB
\"  LocalWords:  Debian's BODYFILE config reportbugrc pre DEBEMAIL gnupg gpg
\"  LocalWords:  REPORTBUGEMAIL GnuPG MUA debian Dorman severities KEYID keyid
\"  LocalWords:  PGP maintonly mta MTA smtphost mua nmh mh pgp http realname
\"  LocalWords:  replyto wishlist ISP's localhost SMTP tls smtpuser USERNAME
\"  LocalWords:  smtppasswd multiuser chmod debsums uninstallable BCC ssl Bcc's
\"  LocalWords:  whitespace DEBFULLNAME DEBNAME MAILCC MAILBCC Thielen hostname
\"  LocalWords:  getopt bugzilla Mozilla AbiSource FreeCiv querybts
