.\" 
.\" reportbug.conf manual page Written by Y Giridhar Appaji Nag 
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Y Giridhar Appaji Nag <giridhar@appaji.net>
.\" 
.\" This manual page is distributable under the following license:
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
.\" provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and that
.\" both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
.\" supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" I DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL I
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
.\" DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION,
.\" ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" $Id: reportbug.conf.5,v 1.1.2.2 2008-04-18 05:38:28 lawrencc Exp $
.\" 
.TH REPORTBUG.CONF 5 "Dec 2007" "reportbug 3.39"
.SH NAME
.B reportbug.conf
- The configuration file for reportbug
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/reportbug.conf
- The configuration file for reportbug, a program designed to report bugs in the
Debian distribution
.hw config
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the layout of the \fBreportbug\fP and
\fBquerybts\fP configuration file and the available configuration
options.  The default location of the file is
\fB/etc/reportbug.conf\fP and the options may be overriding in
\fB$HOME/.reportbugrc\fP (which follows the same format as
\fBreportbug.conf\fP).

Please note that any configuration file has to be a valid UTF-8
document, and not in a different locale; this is particularly
important in situations where localized characters has to be used
(like for realname).
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Configuration options can be specified in the form

\fBoption-name\fP \fIoption-value\fP

True/False (boolean) options can be specified as

\fBboolean-option\fP

(if it's present, it's a \fBTrue\fP).

Usually, \fBno-option\fP will disable \fBoption\fP if \fBoption\fP is
boolean.

Options can be specified in any order.
.SH OPTIONS
The summary of possible options (in alphabetical order) is as follows:
.TP
.B bts
The bug tracking system to use, see \fBreportbug \-\-help\fP searching
for \fB\-\-bts\fP option for a list of currently supported BTSes.
.TP
.B cc (\fIboolean\fP)
Whether the reporter should be Cc:ed on the bug report.
.TP
.B check-available (\fIboolean\fP)
Whether \fBpackages.debian.org\fP should be queried for newer releases
of the package.  In \fBadvanced\fP and \fBexpert\fP mode,
\fBincoming.debian.org\fP and
\fBhttp://ftp-master.debian.org/new.html\fP are also checked.
.TP
.B compress (\fIboolean\fP)
Whether modified configuration files included in the bug report should
be stripped down.
.TP
.B config-files (\fIboolean\fP)
Whether modified configuration files should be included with the bug
report.
.TP
.B editor
The editor to use to edit the bug report.  Example:

\fBeditor\fP \fI"emacs \-nw"\fP

.TP
.B email
Default \fBFrom\fP address of the bug email (override with environment
variables, see \fBreportbug(1)\fP). Example:

\fBemail\fP \fI"humberto@example.com"\fP

.TP
.B header
Additional headers to add to the bug email.  Like:

\fBheader\fP \fI"X-Debbugs-CC: debian-qa@lists.debian.org"\fP
.br
\fBheader\fP \fI"X-Silly-Header: I haven't edited my /etc/reportbug.conf"\fP
.br
\fBheader\fP \fI"X-Debbugs-No-Ack: please" # to suppress acknowledgments\fP

.TP
.B http_proxy
Default HTTP proxy used to query the BTS (override with environment
variables, see \fBreportbug(1)\fP). Example:

\fBhttp_proxy\fP \fIhttp://proxy.example.com:3128/\fP

.TP
.B keyid
The GPG key to use, if different from the default one on the system.
Example:

\fBkeyid\fP \fI12345678\fP

.TP
.B maintonly
See the \fB\-\-maintonly\fP entry in \fBreportbug(1)\fP.
.TP
.B mh
Use the \fBmh\fP mailer.
.TP
.B mode [\fInovice\fP|\fIstandard\fP|\fIadvanced\fP|\fIexpert\fP]
The default operating mode for \fBreportbug(1)\fP.
.TP
.B mta
The path to the MTA used.  Any any SMTP server on Debian should be OK
with the default:

\fBmta\fP \fI/usr/sbin/sendmail\fP

.TP
.B mua
The mail user agent to use (the default is empty, to use an internal
mailer). Example:

\fBmua\fP \fI'mutt \-H'\fP

.TP
.B mutt
Use the \fBmutt\fP mailer.
.TP
.B nmh
Use the \fBnmh\fP mailer.
.TP
.B no-check-uid (\fIboolean\fP)
Disables checking whether the UIDs are outside admin range (\fIroot\fP
is still checked).
.TP
.B no-debconf (\fIboolean\fP)
Disables adding the \fBdebconf-show\fP output to the bug report.
.TP
.B no-query-source (\fIboolean\fP)
Disables querying the source packages for bugs.
.TP
.B offline
Disables all external queries.
.TP
.B query-bts (\fIboolean\fP)
Whether the BTS should be queried for existing bug reports.
.TP
.B quiet
See the \fB\-\-report-quiet\fP entry in \fBreportbug(1)\fP.
.TP
.B realname
The default real-name in the \fBFrom\fP address of the bug email
(override with environment variables, see \fBreportbug(1)\fP. Example:

\fBrealname\fP \fI"Humberto Flores III"\fP

.TP
.B replyto
The default \fBReply-To\fP in the bug email (override with environment
variables, see \fBreportbug(1)\fP. Example:

\fBreplyto\fP \fI"Humberto Flores <humflores@example.org>"\fP

.TP
.B severity [\fIcritical\fP|\fIgrave\fP|\fIserious\fP|\fIimportant\fP|\fInormal\fP|\fIminor\fP|\fIwishlist\fP]
The default severity level of the bug reported.  Setting this in the
configuration file will disable prompting while running
\fBreportbug\fP.
.TP
.B sign [\fIgpg\fP|\fIpgp\fP]
Program used to digitally sign bug reports automatically.
.TP
.B smtphost
Use an MTA different from \fB/usr/sbin/sendmail\fP.  A port number
other than 25 can also be specified. Example:

\fBsmtphost\fP \fImail.example.com:2525\fP

Use "\fBsmtphost\fP \fIlocalhost\fP" to enable the internal MTA.

.TP
.B smtppasswd
The password to use for SMTP. Example:

\fBsmtppasswd\fP \fIf10r35\fP

.TP
.B smtpuser
The username to use for SMTP. Example:

\fBsmtpuser\fP \fIhflores\fP

.TP
.B smtptls
Enables TLS encryption.
.TP
.B submit
Use \fIsubmit\fP as the bug submission address.
.TP
.B template
Use the template mode, bypasses all prompts and the output it sent to
stdout.
.TP
.B ui [\fItext\fP|\fIurwid\fP|\fIgtk2\fP]
The user interface that \fBquerybts(1)\fP and \fBreportbug(1)\fP
should use.
.TP
.B verify
Enables automatic verification of package installation before reporting
using \fBdebsums\fP, if available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
reportbug(1), querybts(1)
.SH AUTHOR
reportbug was written by Chris Lawrence <lawrencc@debian.org> and it's now maintained by Sandro Tosi <morph@debian.org>
.PP
This manual page was written by Y Giridhar Appaji Nag
<giridhar@appaji.net> for the Debian project, but may be used by others.
